students asking all the time if their
essays make a difference and the short
answer is absolutely yes
I was extremely anxious about running my
college essay I had a really hard time
thinking of a topic I first didn't know
what to write about the pressure was
definitely there I was really nervous
that maybe they wouldn't get to the
essay they wouldn't pay attention to it
when I pick up an application the first
thing I like to read is the students
essays essays can truly be a significant
tip factor in our final decision the
essay is something you can really you
know bring yourself into really let the
admissions directors know who you are
Who I am on paper is not who I am in
person the rest of my application is a
bunch of like stuffy numbers grades it's
really just a free space for you to talk
about yourself and what about you that
is it different from everyone else the
one thing I wanted to do stand out every
year I read about 2,000 essays that's a
lot of writing
what makes an essay stand out some of
the best essays that I've read are
essays where people are just being
themselves
it's about how much of you you can put
into your essay how passionate you are
about something really gonna make a
difference in you know the whole group
of applications if you can really just
make the person remember you that was
really the only way they could see who I
was as a person we're looking for all
those different kinds of people to add
to what Boston University is everyone
has something unique about themselves
everyone's story is different for me
that actually was marching band I ended
up writing about why I wanted to be a
teacher I actually wrote about one of my
experiences playing hockey you don't
need to have a story that's one in a
million you can have a story that
everyone has but it's about making it
yours and that's all in the words of me
using an essay once you find that topic
it's all about just writing and
rewriting the main chunk of the work
actually is in revising please proofread
proofread proofread proofread
people you can get to read your essays
you know to better about everything all
my afternoons and everything I have my
guidance counselor read my essay I had
my English teacher read my action and we
had to cut out a bunch of awesome
sentences that I thought was great
keep your story concise when it says 500
words you really have to make sure it's
actually 500 words I think mine was like
six I teach it eventually you'll get
that perfect essay that you have dreamed
of and that's when you know you're ready
just click that submit button and and
enjoy that you know heavenly moment
pretty sweet